---
layout: default
title: CAIP 1.2 Documentation
parent: Turing CAIP
grand_parent: Documentation
permalink: /docs/turing/1
nav_order: 2
published: true
config_file: "launch.CAIP12"
---
{: .no_toc }
# CAIP v1.2 Docs - 2020-06-20
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
---

[comment]: <> (Page variables are defined in the YAML front matter block, and accessed by {{ page.variable_name }}.)

Created by [Christopher Ying](https://github.com/ChrispyMC). | [Itch.io Page](https://cih.itch.io/caip) | [My Website](https://sites.google.com/view/chrispy) | [CGames Website](https://sites.google.com/view/countergames)

## Introduction
CAIP uses the Turing programming language. It is a Pascal-like interpreted programming language and was mostly used in high schools in Canada.
*For more information about Turing, [click here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_(programming_language)).*

---

It is easy to customise CAIP. No programming knowledge is required to customise the program.

## Configuration File Layout

The configuration file can be customized to your liking. This file is named *{{ page.config_file }}*.
It is a simple list, with options separated by a new line.
I recommend using [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/) to edit the configuration file.

**DO NOT change any names before the ":=" in the configuration file.**

<table style="width:30%">
	<tr>
		<td><b>Line Number</b></td>
		<td><b>Name</b></td>
		<td><b>Possible Entries</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Program (Name)</td>
		<td>Anything in a <b>string</b> variable type. Use "_" to denote spaces in your program name.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Text (Colour)</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Background (Colour)</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4</td>
		<td>Execute (File/URI)</td>
		<td>Local File (With file extension in the entry) or URI (http(s)://, steam://, etc.)</td>
	</tr>
</table>

| Line Number | Name                | Possible Entries                                                                      |
|-------------|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1           | Program (Name)      | Anything in a **string** variable type. Use "_" to denote spaces in your custom name. |
| 2           | Text (Colour)       | Any number ID in the colour chart below.                                              |
| 3           | Background (Colour) | Any number ID in the colour chart below.                                              |
| 4           | Execute (File/URI)  | Local File (With file extension in the entry), or URI (http(s)://, steam://, etc.)    |

---

# Configuring Launch Settings

## Changing the program name of CAIP

To change and customize the name of your program, enter your title in the first line (program) of the *{{ page.config_file }}* file.
Anything is allowed as the first line is mostly treated as a **string** type variable.
Use "_" (An underscore) to denote the placement of spaces in your program name entry.

## Changing the text and background colours

**New in CAIP 1.2**
> The available colours has been expanded to 16 colours.

<table style="width:20%">
	<tr>
		<td rowspan="3"><b>Colours</b></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>3</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>White</td>
		<td>Black</td>
		<td>Light Grey</td>
		<td>Dark Grey</td>
	</tr>
</table>

To change the text colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the second line of the **{{ page.config_file }}** file.
To change the background colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the third line of the **{{ page.config_file }}** file.

## Changing the executed file / URI

**New in CAIP 1.2**

> execType in previous versions of Turing CAIP has been deprecated as it is no longer needed to determine what will get executed in CAIP.

To change what will get executed in CAIP just enter the file name/URI in the **fourth** line of the **{{ page.config_file }}**.
If your file is in a sub-directory, follow the guide below.

Let's say you want to launch the **docs.html** file from the CAIP directory.
`CAIP 1.2/docs/docs.html`

You would enter in the **fourth** line of your **{{ page.config_file }}** file:
`"docs/docs.html"`

The file would be entered in this format from the origin directory: 
`sub-directory/sub-directory/filename.extension`