---
layout: default
title: CAIP 1.1 Documentation
parent: Turing CAIP
permalink: /docs/turing/1/1
nav_order: 3
config_file: config.CAIP11
---
# CAIP v1.1 Docs - 2019-09-02
{: .no_toc }
Created by [Christopher Ying](https://github.com/ChrispyMC). | [Itch.io Page](https://cih.itch.io/caip) | [My Website](https://chrispy.us.to) | [CGames Website](https://cgames.us.to)
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
---

<h1>CAIP v1.1 Docs - 2019-09-02</h1>
<p>Created by <a href="https://github.com/ChrispyMC">Christopher Ying</a>. | <a href="https://cih.itch.io">Itch.io Page</a> | <a href="http://chrispy.us.to">My Website</a> | <a href="http://cgames.us.to">CGames Website</a></p>

<h1>Introduction</h1>

<p>CAIP uses the Turing programming language. It is a Pascal-like interpreted programming language and is mostly used in high schools in Canada.<p>

<p>For more information about Turing, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_(programming_language)">click here</a>.</p>

<hr>

<p>It is easy to customise CAIP. No programming knowledge is required to customise the program.</p>

<h1><b>Settings File Layout</b></h1>

<p>The settings file can be customized to your liking. The settings file is called <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b>.</p>
<p>The settings file is a simple 1 Dimensional array, otherwise known as a "list".</p>
<p>I recommend using <a href="https://notepad-plus-plus.org/">Notepad++</a> to edit the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file.</p>
<p><b>DO NOT CHANGE any names before the "=" in the configuration file.</b></p>

<table style="width:30%">
	<tr>
		<th>List Layout</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Line Number</td>
		<td>Name</td>
		<td>Possible Entries</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Custom Name</td>
		<td>Anything in a <b>string</b> variable type. Use "_" to denote spaces in your custom name.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>FG (Text) Colour</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>BG Colour</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4</td>
		<td>execType</td>
		<td>0 or 1, where 0 is a local file and 1 is a website.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>5</td>
		<td>execName</td>
		<td>Local File (With file extension in the entry) or URI (http(s)://, steam://, etc.)</td>
	</tr>
</table>
<h1><b>Changing Settings</b></h1>

<h2>1. Changing the title of CAIP</h2>

<p>To change and customize the title of CAIP, enter your title in the first line of the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file.</p>
<p>Anything is allowed as the first line is mostly treated as a <b>string</b> type variable.</p>
<p>Use "_" to denote the placement of spaces in your custom name entry.</p>

<h2>2. Changing the text and background colours</h2>

<table style="width:20%">
	<tr>
		<th>Colours</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>3</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>White</td>
		<td>Black</td>
		<td>Light Grey</td>
		<td>Dark Grey</td>
	</tr>
</table>

<p>To change the text colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the second line of the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file.</p>

<p>To change the background colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the third line of the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file.</p>

<h2>3. Changing the executed file / launched website</h2>

<p>To change the file that CAIP will executed, go into the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file.</p>
<p>The <b>fourth</b> line will determine what CAIP will display in the output window. CAIP can execute a program, multimedia file or go to a website.</p>
<p>It is recommended that you set this line to <b>0</b> if it is a local file, or <b>1</b> if it is a website.</p>
<p>CAIP will not work if this line is set incorrectly.<p>

<p>To change what will get executed in CAIP just enter the file name in the fifth line of the <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b>
<p>If your file is in a sub-directory, follow the guide below.</p>

<p>Let's say you want to launch the <b>docs.html</b> file from the CAIP directory.</p>

<p><b>CAIP 1.1</b>/<b>docs</b>/<b>docs.html</b></p>

<p>You would enter in the <b>fourth</b> line of your <b>{{ site.config_file }}</b> file:</p>
<p>"docs/docs.html"</p>

<p>The file would be entered in this format: <b>sub-directory</b>/<b>sub-directory</b>/<b>filename.extension</b></p>