---
layout: default
title: CAIP 1.2 Documentation
parent: Turing CAIP
permalink: /docs/turing/1
nav_order: 2
config_file: "launch.CAIP12"
---
{: .no_toc }
# CAIP v1.2 Docs - 2020-06-20
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
---

Created by [Christopher Ying](https://github.com/ChrispyMC). | [Itch.io Page](https://cih.itch.io/caip) | [My Website](https://sites.google.com/view/chrispy) | [CGames Website](https://sites.google.com/view/countergames)

## Introduction
CAIP uses the Turing programming language. It is a Pascal-like interpreted programming language and was mostly used in high schools in Canada.
*For more information about Turing, [click here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_(programming_language)).*

---

It is easy to customise CAIP. No programming knowledge is required to customise the program.

## Settings File Layout
The settings file can be customized to your liking. The settings file is called **{{ site.config_file }}**.
The settings file is a simple 1 Dimensional array, otherwise known as a "list".</p>
I recommend using [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/) to edit the **{{ site.config_file }}** file.
**DO NOT change any names before the ":=" in the configuration file.**

<table style="width:30%">
	<tr>
		<td>Line Number</td>
		<td>Name</td>
		<td>Possible Entries</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Program (Name)</td>
		<td>Anything in a <b>string</b> variable type. Use "_" to denote spaces in your program name.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>Text (Colour)</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Background (Colour)</td>
		<td>Any number ID in the colour chart below.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>4</td>
		<td>Execute (File/URI)</td>
		<td>Local File (With file extension in the entry) or URI (http(s)://, steam://, etc.)</td>
	</tr>
</table>

---

# Configuring Launch Settings

## Changing the program name of CAIP
To change and customize the name of your program, enter your title in the first line of the **{{ site.config_file }}** file.
Anything is allowed as the first line is mostly treated as a **string** type variable.
Use "_" (One *Underscore*) to denote the placement of spaces in your custom name entry.

## Changing the text and background colours
<table style="width:20%">
	<tr>
		<th>Colours</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>2</td>
		<td>3</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>White</td>
		<td>Black</td>
		<td>Light Grey</td>
		<td>Dark Grey</td>
	</tr>
</table>

To change the text colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the second line of the **{{ site.config_file }}** file.
To change the background colour for CAIP, enter a number corresponding to the colour you want in the third line of the **{{ site.config_file }}** file.

## Changing the executed file / URI
To change what will get executed in CAIP just enter the file name/URI in the **fourth** line of the **{{ site.config_file }}**.
If your file is in a sub-directory, follow the guide below.

Let's say you want to launch the **docs.html** file from the CAIP directory.
> CAIP 1.2/docs/docs.html

You would enter in the **fourth** line of your **{{ site.config_file }}** file:
> "docs/docs.html"

The file would be entered in this format from the origin directory: 
> sub-directory/sub-directory/filename.extension